Strangler Fig Pattern

this pattern is a software migration pattern used to gradually replace p or refactor a legacy system with a new system, piece by piece with out disrupting its existing functionality , 

There are 4 different patterns
Identification :
Transformation :
Co- Existence :
Elimination : 

What are containers, 
If we use containers then for each microservice Accounts, Loans, Cards. We can have different types of JDK version for loans we can have different Java 8 for cards we can have Java 10 and Spring Boot Libraries. 

Container Engine is Docker. 

A container is a loosely isolated environment that allows us to build and run software packages, These software packages include the code and all the dependencies to run the application quickly and reliably on any computing environment. we call these packages as docker images

A container is a lightweight, isolated runtime environment that packages:

Application code

Runtime (Java, Python, Node, etc.)

Libraries

Dependencies

System tools

Everything needed to run the application consistently anywhere.

Containerization:
Containerization is the process/technology of packaging applications into containers.
So containerization = method of creating and running containers.
Spring Boot App
      ↓
Docker Image
      ↓
Run Container
      ↓
Application Running

Docker is the most popular platform/tool used to implement containerization.

It provides everything needed to:

Build container images

Run containers

Manage containers

Distribute containers

FLOW
Containerization (Concept / Technology)
            ↓
Containers (Result of containerization)
            ↓
Docker (Tool used to create & run containers)

WITHOUT DOCKER:

Install Java
Install Maven
Clone repo
Build project
Run JAR

WITH DOCKER:
docker build -t project-api .
docker run -p 8080:8080 project-api

with my machine I can run the Java in container 1 and python file in container 2 and they share the same OS Kernel
Kernel is the heart of Operating System and it is middle man so that my Applications talk to the Hardware componenets like CPU, RAM.	 

To understand Docker containers, two Linux kernel features are very important:

Namespaces and Control Groups (cgroups).

They are the core technologies behind containers.

Namespaces → Isolation

PID Namespace (Process Isolation)
Each container has its own process list.

Example:

Container 1:

PID 1 → Spring Boot
PID 2 → JVM thread

Container 2:

PID 1 → MySQL
PID 2 → MySQL worker

Both containers have PID 1, but they are isolated.

Network Namespace

Each container has its own network stack.

Example:

Container 1 → IP 172.17.0.2
Container 2 → IP 172.17.0.3

Each container has:

its own IP

its own ports

its own network interfaces

Control groups (cgroups) control how much system resources a container can use.

They manage:

CPU

Memory

Disk I/O

Network

Without cgroups, one container could consume all resources and crash the system.

Example

Suppose your server has:

8 GB RAM
4 CPU cores

You run two containers:

Container 1 → Spring Boot
Container 2 → MySQL

Using cgroups you can set limits:

Spring Boot → 2GB RAM
MySQL → 3GB RAM

So Spring Boot cannot use more than 2GB RAM.